---
Layout: post
title:  "Emacs"
date:   2020-07-22
author: SASIDHAR
categories: emacs
permalink : /emacs

---
# Doom Emacs

Well, I always wanted to use emacs atleast once. I was in an funny assumption that emacs could make a good operating system except lacks a decent text editor. LOL.

I came to know about an emacs configuration called [Doom Emacs](https://github.com/hlissner/doom-emacs) , which uses vim binding for doing stuff. Also it launches very fast with some different underlying mechanism. Check out the linked Doom Emacs github README for more details.

The main reason I wanted to use emacs is there is a telegram client called telega.el which looks very cool. It can be installed using guix and some other ways. The thing is if you want to install emacs-telega using  guix then the emacs must be installed using guix too. 

So thats the reason I installed guix in my arch linux. Arch wiki says the guix is not stable and could break apps ,but i can assure that it is completely safe unless you mess with things that you shouldn't. The reason I am writing this post is there are some things i had encountered while setting up telega using guix. I will brief them in here so that it would come handy to me when I install some other time.

>For the installation of guix in any foreign distro, i recommend using shell installer script.
[GNU-GUIX](https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Binary-Installation.html)

The main thing to do after installing is just test using a simple hello package.

```sh
guix package install hello
```
>The installation of package must go smoothly. It will download all the coreutils and someother developmental tools to compile and make the package. The main directories it creates are :

```sh
/gnu
~/guix-profile
~/.config/guix

```
>After that head over to telega installation procedure - [telega.el](https://github.com/zevlg/telega.el)
Here after installing this , launch telega using M-x telega RET. This is where i found some issues.

To resolve this i added **export PATH=$HOME/.guix-profile/bin:$PATH** to what ever shell config file you use ( For me its ~/.zshrc ).

Also you add the following things in rc file.

```sh
GUIX_PROFILE="/home/sasidhar/.guix-profile" && . "$GUIX_PROFILE/etc/profile" 
```

And check the **echo $EMACSLOADPATH** and see if it lists the paths. 

The thing i encountered is after doing all this , there isnt telega listed in emacs. So with the help of some other developer, i added this the below line into my config.el file.

```sh
(mapc (lambda (p) (add-load-path! p)) (split-string (getenv "EMACSLOADPATH") ":"))
```
Then restart emacs . It must work . Also another problem is with guix pull. guix pull upgrades the packages ( like pacman -Syu ).

For me , the binaries are acting differently.

```sh
~/.guix-profile/bin/emacs
~/.config/guix/current/bin/guix 
```
And the latter thing pulls the latest packages. 

And the other problem now is with themes. Everytime I do guix pull , the fonts gets deleted except the normal ones. So I had to copy the fonts packages from /usr/share/fonts to ~/.guix-profile/share/fonts everytime I do something with guix package manager.

---
The cheat sheet and other details are to be uploaded verysoon. The onething to remember is to use **doom sync**. 


### DOCUMENTATION LINKS
- [GNU GUIX](http://gnu.org)
- [GNU EMACS](http://gnu.org/software/emacs)
- [TELEGA.EL](https://github.com/zevlg/telega.el)
- [DOOM EMACS](https://github.com/hlissner/doom-emacs) 






