---
layout: post
title: "Download videos from linux academy"
date: 2020-05-05 07:45:36
author: Sasidhar
cover: "/assets/wolf1.png"
permalink: /certbot
categories: certbot
tags: sslcerts https letsencrypt certbot
---

### This is personally for my own reference , when i want to refer about this in future. Feel free to have a look around. And also the entire text is just a copy and paste from the official documentation.

# What is lets encrypt

To enable HTTPS on your website, you need to get a certificate (a type of file) from a Certificate Authority (CA). Let’s Encrypt is a CA. In order to get a certificate for your website’s domain from Let’s Encrypt, you have to demonstrate control over the domain. With Let’s Encrypt, you do this using software that uses the ACME protocol which typically runs on your web host.

# What is certbot

Certbot is part of EFF’s effort to encrypt the entire Internet. Secure communication over the Web relies on HTTPS, which requires the use of a digital certificate that lets browsers verify the identity of web servers (e.g., is that really google.com?). Web servers obtain their certificates from trusted third parties called certificate authorities (CAs). Certbot is an easy-to-use client that fetches a certificate from Let’s Encrypt—an open certificate authority launched by the EFF, Mozilla, and others—and deploys it to a web server.

Certbot is a fully-featured, extensible client for the Let’s Encrypt CA (or any other CA that speaks the ACME protocol) that can automate the tasks of obtaining certificates and configuring webservers to use them. This client runs on Unix-based operating systems.

# What is a certificate

A public key or digital certificate (formerly called an SSL certificate) uses a public key and a private key to enable secure communication between a client program (web browser, email client, etc.) and a server over an encrypted SSL (secure socket layer) or TLS (transport layer security) connection. The certificate is used both to encrypt the initial stage of communication (secure key exchange) and to identify the server. The certificate includes information about the key, information about the server identity, and the digital signature of the certificate issuer. If the issuer is trusted by the software that initiates the communication, and the signature is valid, then the key can be used to communicate securely with the server identified by the certificate. Using a certificate is a good way to prevent “man-in-the-middle” attacks, in which someone in between you and the server you think you are talking to is able to insert their own (harmful) content.

You can use Certbot to easily obtain and configure a free certificate from Let’s Encrypt, a joint project of EFF, Mozilla, and many other sponsors.

# Installation.

Certbot can be installed via snaps (meh) , via docker and from the official repositories

### Arch Linux

```sh
sudo pacman -S certbot

```

### Ubuntu

```sh
sudo apt-get install certbot
```

### Fedora

```sh
sudo dnf install certbot
```

> Certbot-Auto

> We used to have a shell script named certbot-auto to help people install Certbot on UNIX operating systems, however, this script is no longer supported.

## Certbot Commands

Certbot uses a number of different commands (also referred to as “subcommands”) to request specific actions such as obtaining, renewing, or revoking certificates.

# Please read , `certbot --help all ` for complete quick reference

### Getting certificates (and choosing plugins)

The Certbot client supports two types of plugins for obtaining and installing certificates: authenticators and installers.

Authenticators are plugins used with the certonly command to obtain a certificate. The authenticator validates that you control the domain(s) you are requesting a certificate for, obtains a certificate for the specified domain(s), and places the certificate in the **/etc/letsencrypt** directory on your machine. The authenticator does not install the certificate (it does not edit any of your server’s configuration files to serve the obtained certificate). If you specify multiple domains to authenticate, they will all be listed in a single certificate. To obtain multiple separate certificates you will need to run Certbot multiple times.

Installers are Plugins used with the install command to install a certificate. These plugins can modify your webserver’s configuration to serve your website over HTTPS using certificates obtained by certbot.

#### There are some plugins like appache , webroot( installing certs when the webserver is still running ) , nginx etc.. You can find them in the documentation from the links at the end of the post.

## Manual

If you’d like to obtain a certificate running certbot on a machine other than your target webserver or perform the steps for domain validation yourself, you can use the manual plugin. While hidden from the UI, you can use the plugin to obtain a certificate by specifying certonly and --manual on the command line. This requires you to copy and paste commands into another terminal session, which may be on a different computer.

The manual plugin can use either the http or the dns challenge. You can use the **--preferred-challenges** option to choose the challenge of your preference.

The http challenge will ask you to place a file with a specific name and specific content in the \*_/.well-known/acme-challenge/_ directory directly in the top-level directory (“web root”) containing the files served by your webserver. In essence it’s the same as the webroot plugin, but not automated.

When using the dns challenge, certbot will ask you to place a TXT DNS record with specific contents under the domain name consisting of the hostname for which you want a certificate issued, prepended by **\_acme-challenge**.

## I personally generate wildcard certifications so I can use the same certifications for all my subdomains.

An example of generating wildcard certs using certbot is

```sh
sudo certbot certonly --manual --preferred-challenges=dns --email admin@example.com --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory --agree-tos -d example.com -d *.example.com
```

The command options above are explained below:

certonly: Obtain or renew a certificate, but do not install
–manual: Obtain certificates interactively
–preferred-challenges=dns: Use dns to authenticate domain ownership
–server: Specify the endpoint to use to generate
–agree-tos: Agree to the ACME server’s subscriber terms
-d: Domain name to provide certificates for

To verify that the certificate is ready, run the commands below:

```sh
sudo certbot certificates
```

## There are ways to autorenew the certs using cronjob..feel free to search about them.

## Where are my certificates?

All generated keys and issued certificates can be found in **/etc/letsencrypt/live/$domain**. In the case of creating a SAN certificate with multiple alternative names, **$domain** is the first domain passed in via -d parameter. Rather than copying, please point your (web) server configuration directly to those files (or create symlinks). During the renewal, **/etc/letsencrypt/live** is updated with the latest necessary files.

For historical reasons, the containing directories are created with permissions of 0700 meaning that certificates are accessible only to servers that run as the root user. If you will never downgrade to an older version of Certbot, then you can safely fix this using **chmod 0755 /etc/letsencrypt/{live,archive}**.

**For servers that drop root privileges before attempting to read the private key file, you will also need to use chgrp and chmod 0640 to allow the server to read /etc/letsencrypt/live/$domain/privkey.pem**.

### DOCUMENTATION LINKS

- [CERTBOT](https://certbot.eff.org/)
- [LETS ENCRYPT](https://letsencrypt.org/)
